and Poland-China swine. Allen (Domestic Animals, pages 26 and 27), writing in 1847, says of cattle: "Every country and almost every district has its peculiar breeds, which by long association have become adapted to the food and circumstances of its position and, when found profit.able, they should be exchanged for others, only after the most thorough trial of superior fitness for the particular location, in those proposed to be introduced." Appreciation of the usefulness of improved breeding stock followed hard on the heels of the pioneering period . Cattle of the Shorthorn, Hereford, and Devon breeds were imported around 1800; although there were yet no herdbooks for those breeds. The new pedigree breed.ing methods of Britain were followed with interest. The individual pedigrees for the Herefords and for the Devons in those early importa.tions were not permanently preserved, but some of the pedigrees in the early volumes of the American Shorthorn Herdbook trace in part to animals imported as long ago as 1817. Enthusiasm for pedigree breed.ing sometimes reached the stage of extreme speculation, as with some of the Merino sheep breeding early in the nineteenth century and with the Duchess Shorthorns in the 1870's. General interest in pedigree breeding was mainly confined to the Shorthorn breed and to certain light horses and to the early sheep breeding in New England until the era of agricultural expansion which began soon after the Civil War. Then purebreeding became fashion .able for all kinds of animals. The period from 1870 to around 1890 saw the founding and rapid expansion of breeding societies for almost all kinds of livestock, each with its herdbook, scorecard, etc. Most of the breeds were introduced from Britain; although there were a few from other places, such as the Holstein-Friesians from Holland and the Brown Swiss from Switzerland and draft horses from Belgium and France. Also, there were some native breeds like the cornbelt breeds of swine and the Standardbred and American Saddle Horses. The agricul.tural colleges, most of which were founded just before or early in this period, promoted the movement toward the general use of purebred sires as one of the quickest ways to improve the quality and efficiency of animal production. Experiments to find or demonstrate the value of the purebred sire in grading up common stock were conducted at some agricultural colleges until well into the 1920's. The purebreds seemed obviously superior to the common stock in many ways, especially as the country was becoming urbanized and the available markets for animals were becoming similar to the markets for which the British stock had been bred for many animal generations. The initial gulf betwen the purebreds and the native stock was a wide one in most cases, since no large group of high grades with which to compare the purebreds had yet been produced. The most urgent need of the times in animal breeding seemed clearly to be a wider use of purebreds. This expansion in the use of purebred sires made a generally expanding or rising market for the business of producing purebred sires. In turn, that favorable economic situation led to the establish.ment of still more herds and flocks of purebreds. Of course this rapid expansion in numbers of purebreds could not continue forever. For most breeds it came to a rather abrupt end with the economic depres.sion which began for most agricultural enterprises about 1920. That economic crisis merely hastened the end of the remarkable expansion in purebred numbers which began about 1870. There is still room for pro.motion of the wider use of purebred sires, and doubtless some expan.sion in the total number of purebreds will yet be seen; but it will be at a slower percentage rate than was generally true for the half century ending in 1920. There are almost enough purebred flocks and herds to produce as many purebred sires as can be sold at a profitable price for use in commercial flocks and herds. This end to the long period of expansion in numbers has meant a serious readjustment of the business of those who produce purebreds, and it has also had an effect oq the way they regard current breeding problems. There may be nearly enough registered sires to supply all the demand which exists or can be aroused by good salesmanship, but there are not enough highly meritorious registered sires. Much of the <;mpha.sis which used to be given to breed expansion is being changed to breed improvement. A contributory cause to this change of emphasis is that for most breeds large numbers of high grades have already been produced. Some of those are individually more meritorious in a practical way than the average of the purebreds, even though the average of the grades remains below that of the purebreds. Most of the experiments with the use of purebred sires for grading have shown that the averages of grades with more than two crosses of pure blood (that is, with more than 75 per cent pure blood) are very little below the average of the pure breed concerned. When there were no high grades for comparison, the differ.ences between different purebreds seemed small and not worth much emphasis, compared with the gulf which often existed between the introduced purebred and the common native stock. Now the differences between members of the same pure breed are often large compared with the small average differences between purebred and high grade. The idea of breed improvement is not new in kind-it is merely receiving more emphasis than formerly. Nearly all of the breed associa.tions included improvement of the breed in their very first statements of the objectives of their association. An excellent example of that was the insistence by many of the early Holstein-Friesian breeders on the adoption of a system of official testing of production before they would merge their two breed associations, one of which lacked this feature. Nearly every breed association, very early in its existence, adopted a scorecard or some other form of official description of the ideal toward which they were working. Occasionally they even went to considerable trouble or expense trying out plans which were intended to improve the breed more rapidly. Often these did not work as expected and had later to be discarded. Examples are the bounties which the Holstein-L~v~Iof a stationary pur~ breed +-E~r----------=;...,...,~----_-_-_i-=,=,=j=~fil;=;l=::,m,,-.I 7 blood To 32 6'5 l,_._b_loo_d_. .!! r-,-..,...,--,J 3 .blood ~ <:an,nonl stock f.1re br4-e.d ámprov,nqconstant\.)' \ .fil 32+.ll!ác 16 ~ E Pur~breds ! blood at 5tart'o .blood ~ 0 0 .blood cl) Common 5fock. Pare.ntol 2 3 4 5 6 1tm~ in 9enuations Fie. 2. The oontrast between grading to a pure breed which u stationary in merit and grading to a pure breed which is improving its merit by a oonstant amount each generation. Friesian association offered in 1889-1891 for butchering or castrating bull calves which would have been eligible for registry, and the ruling of the Hereford association (in effect during 1895-1897) that 10 per cent of all applications for registry of bulls would be refused. The Aberdeen-Angus Association in 1887 had a rule that of every ten bull calves eligible to registry, one must be castrated or two shall be dropped from record. Actually it appears that 70 were castrated and 8 were unrecorded while this was in force. The very fact that the purebred has generally been found useful in grading up common stock carries with it the necessity for the continued improvement of the purebred itself if the distinction between pure breds and grades is to be maintained. If the pure breed did not con.tinue to improve, the average merit of the grades would soon be so nearly equal to that of the purebreds that the distinction between them could not long be maintained. Figure 2 illustrates this on the assump.tion (which is true in general, although with many exceptions) that off.spring average about half way between their parents. 1 The upper half of the diagram shows what would happen under continuous grading to a pure breed which was not itself being improved. The lower half deals in a similar way with a pure breed which is being improved each gen.eration by an amount equal to one-tenth of its initial superiority to the common stock. The difference betwen upper and lower halves of the diagram is not important in the first generation or two but becomes pronounced after several generations of grading and shows how a con.tinuously improving breed may maintain a commercially important margin of superiority over its grades as long as it can continue its own improvement. The diagram, of course, is simpler than the facts (as will be seen in more detail in the chapters on selection); but it demonstrates the necessity of continued breed improvement to maintain the superi.ority and popularity of the purebred sire. Animal breeding history in the United States may be divided into four periods. First, there was a pioneer period when the kind of live.stock was not of much importance. Second , there followed a period of developing local races and a little experimenting with introduced breeds. Third, came a period of extensive experiments with introduced breeds and widespread expansion of organized pure breeding charac.terized by rivalry between breeds and by breed promotion. In the pres.ent period the dominant interest is in breed improvement, not only for successful competition with the other breeds, but also for keeping the 'Allowance for regression toward the mean of the groupsfrom which the parents were chosen needs to be made if the parents were selected mdividuals. Also heterosis sometimes causes the first-cross generation to be better than the diagram indicates. purebreds distinctly ahead of the grades of the same breed in order to maintain a steady demand for purebred sires. These periods did not begin and end suddenly but merged gradually into each other, and some of the elements which characterize each period were present in lesser degree in all periods. At present it seems likely that plans for breed improvement will go on within the framework of the existing systems of purebreeding, but here and there occurs some experimenting with the combination of more or less blood from two or more breeds, just as was done by some of the breed founders in the days before strict.ly pure breeding and registration became the standard methods of improved breeding. CHAPTERS The Relation of the Breed Association to Breed Improvement The activities of the breed associations are intended to maintain the present merit of the breed, to improve the merit of the breed, and to promote the business interests of the members. Some activities serve all three of these purposes, and many serve two of them. The primary object of breed associations, particularly in countries to which the breed is not native, is to safeguard the purity of the breed and to furnish accurate pedigrees to all breeders who desire them . In practically all cases the breed association took over the conduct of the herdbook early in the history of the association. Most of the clerical work in most associations is used for issuing and checking the accuracy of registrations and transfers. Most of the errors discovered in applica.tions for registry or transfer are matters of carelessness or neglect, but ¥close watch is kept for fraud, and occasionally a member is expelled for ¥this reason or his registrations are canceled. Because of the possibility of legal complications and internal dissension, this is not usually done unless the proof is quite conclusive. The accuracy of a pedigree depends mainly upon the honesty and carefulness of the man who signs the application for registry. But the breed association's policy of rejecting or returning applications not accurate in detail and of investigating within reasonable limits cases where fraud is suspected prevents many errors which would come into pedigrees if there were no such super.vision. Some associations publish the facts when a member is expelled or registrations are canceled becau se of fraud. Others keep it quiet to avoid scandal. Probably the first policy is generally the wiser. In either case the news usually spreads fast. Safeguarding the purity of a hreed does nothing to increase its merit but does act LO some extent as a ratch.et mechanism to maintain whatever special merit the breed already has and to hold any future improvements which may be made in its average merit. Preserving the present merit of the breed is particularly impor.tant if the breed is an introduced one, few in numbers, and surrounded by animals of distinctly different origin. [ 40] A breed association tries to improve the merit of the breed by guid.ing the ideals which the breeders use when making their selections and by making official tests or ratings of the productiveness or conforma.tion of individual animals. The ideals of the breeders are influenced by such activities as adopting a score card, or other verbal description of the breed ideal, or a series of "true type" pictures or models. A different approach to the same goal is through control of judging standards at the various fairs. Sometimes that amounts only to advising the fair man.agement upon request whether the breed association considers a certain individual competent to judge that breed . In other cases the breed asso.ciation prepares a fairly small list of men considered competent, and its contributions of prize money are contingent upon the fair manage.ment's selecting its judge from that list. Sometimes the association prints circulars or uses advertisements which serve the double purpose of promoting wider interest in the br~ed and showing pictures of ani.mals which are considered nearly ideal for that breed. The association sometimes instructs its members as to what is considered important in pedigrees (See Ûxample in H olstein-Friesian World, 33: 300, April 4, 19~).. he general purpose of all these ways of teaching the breeders the o cial ideals for that breed is that the breeders thus informed shall follow those standards when making their own selections and cullings and will thus move the breed average nearer to the breed ideal. The breed association's efforts end with presenting the lesson to the breeder. Unless he asks for further help from the fieldman or other officer, it is entirely up to him whether he accepts the official ideal and how much or how little he uses it when making his selections and cullings. Official tests of the speed of individual horses were characteristic of the Thoroughbred and the Standardbred from the very beginning. ln the case of the latter, a certain speed was necessary for registration.hence the name of the breed. As long ago as 1832 the preface to the list of Thoroughbred horses in Prussia contained the statement: "Unless herdbooks contain production tests, they will be useless and without interest, since they will comain only names, of which no one knows anything and which mean nothing." (Engeler, 1936). Official testing of dairy cattle began around 18801 with the Holstein-Friesian breed in the United States, largely as a result of the work of Solomon Hoxie. (Pri.vate production records were being kept at least as long ago as the time of Thomas Bates.) For a number of years there were serious doubts as to whether official testing would become popular enough to be retained. ' Pages 15 and 16 of Holstein-Friesian History, by Prescott, Price, Wing, and Prescou. However, it evemually proved so µseful, not only for breed improve.ment but also as an aid in advertising and selling, that no dairy breed association would now try to do without its department of official test.ing. But such official tests are not yet a prerequisite to registration. Whether the breeder will test or not is still entirely voluntary with him, except as the demands of a considerable portion of his customers put some economic compulsion on him to test. In the United States, official inspection of whole herds, with a rating of each animal for type, was begun on a voluntary plan in 1929 by one of the dairy breeds and has since been adopted by most of the others. This plan was used by only a few breeders during the depression of the 1930's but now seems to be spreading more rapidly. Type inspection or scoring, sometimes on a compulsory basis, has been practiced much longer in some other countries; for example in The Netherlands or Switzerland. Many of the swine associations have required the man who registers a litter to report the number of pigs farrowed and raised. Some have published in the herdbooks the number farrowed in each litter. Recent.ly Records of Performance have been established by several of the swine breed associations, the Hampshire having been the first. These are based mostly on weight of litter weaned at 56 days. They are still voluntary and are just beginning to be tried on an extensive scale. They seem to be a sound step forward, but their wide adoption will probably depend on how insistently the breeder's customers ask for such informa.tion when they come to buy boa.rs. Tests for measuring the practical productiveness of beef cattle a.re being studied at experiment stations,2 but these have not been adopted by any of the beef breed associations. There have been some discussions of a Record of Performance for sheep, particularly for the fine-wool breeds. The shearing records made in New England a century ago were a kind of crude beginning in that direction. No definite plan is in actual operation today. Although there has been some experimenting with endurance rides for cavalry horses and with pulling tests for draft horses, these have not yet been made an official part of breed association activities. The associations in the United States do not usually keep official lists of the prizes won by individual animals at the important shows, although some of them do so in an unofficial way. In many cases the breed paper performs that service. With a very few exceptions-such as the speed requirement for the ¥see Montana Agr. Exp. Sta., Bui. 397; also Minnesota Agr. Exp. Sta., Tech. Bui. 94; also Empire ]our. of Exp. Agriculture, 8:259--68. Standardbred horse, the type inspection given to Brahman cattle which are admitted as foundation stock, and the flock inspections which are a part of some plans of poultry improvement -the purely voluntary nature of the production-testing and type-rating done under the aus.pices of the breed associations in the United States is like that in Bri.tain, but is in marked contrast to the compulsory inspections or testing in some breeds in continental Europe. Those are discussed in more detail in the chapter on selective registration. In considering how far it would be possible or wise for the American associations to go in that direction, there are broad general questions as to how far collective policies and efforts can or should replace or supplement individual free.dom to follow whatever breeding policies or use whatever purebred animals one pleases, without regard to whether those would be approved by a majority of one's fellow breeders or by an official inspec.tor of the association. Besides such questions of general principle, there are also some immediately practical questions of expense which might make impossible, in breeds as widely scattered as many of those in the United States, procedures which are feasible in lands where the breed is highly concentrated in one or a few localities. Most directors of the breed associations in the United States are reasonably eager to adopt any new practices or requirements which will increase the merit of their breed faster than at present. They usually demand that the new plan shall be tested in actual operation, however, before they commit their association definitely to it. They have sometimes tried a plausible scheme only to find that it did not work as well as they had felt sure it would, and traces of the confusion and discontent which resulted have remained for years to plague them. Naturally, many activities of the breed association are directed mainly at promoting the present business interests of the members. Examples are the efforts to expand the breed numbers by getting new breeders to establish herds, the promotion or management of sales and the correspondence which the secretary's office has with would-be pur.chasers of breeding stock. Most associations prefer to give support and encouragement to sales efforts but not actually to manage the sale them.selves lest the dissatisfactions which inevitably arise about some transac.tions should result in animosity toward the association itself . The provision of prize money at the more important shows is intended to promote the breed by bringing out larger numbers, thus giving more advertisement to the breed. It is also intended to improve the breed by teaching more people the ideal for that breed. Many of the larger breeds have one or more papers devoted mainly to promoting the interests of the breed. Most of these breed papers are Animal Breeding Plans privately owned and managed, but some are owned and operated by the a~sociation itself. The contact between the association and the breed paper is close and important to both parties, even when the paper is privately owned. Most of the activities of the breed paper are devoted to the immediate business interests of the members-advertisements and news of sales, merchandise for breeder's needs, etc.-but some of these papers carry articles and information helpful in improving the merit of the breed, but not otherwise a matter of financial profit to anyone. Besides the breed papers, most associations print leaflets, buy advertis.ing space in other magazines which reach stockmen, and make occasional use of the radio as part of their regular efforts at breed pro.motion. The activities of the fieldmen or breed extension service are in con.siderable part devoted to expanding the numbers of the breed and helping new breeders get started. The fieldmen work also with boys' and girls' clubs and help established breeders with their problems. The forms of government of the breed associations vary widely. Usually the policies are determined by an unsalaried board of directors, preferably with overlapping terms and only one-third elected each year to prevent erratic changes in policies. The executive work of carrying out those policies is administered by a paid secretary. Sometimes there is a fixed number of shares of stock, as in most industrial corporations, and one can become a stockholder only by buying a share from some.one else. More often the number of shares is not limited but any breed.er approved by the board of directors may become a member by paying / a fixed (usually small) sum for a non-transferable membership. Some.times all members present at the annual meeting can vote. In other á associations members not present can vote by proxy. Other associations, especially those with large financial reserves, have more or less elabo.rate systems of delegates or representatives chosen by districts, to ensure proportional representation and to avoid abuse of the proxy system. The form of government is important insofar as it may promote or endanger stability in conducting the association's activities, make it easy or difficult for the board of directors to see that the secretary carries out the general policies they wish, and make it easy or difficult for a minor.ity to seize and hold control. Some of the cases where there are two or more associations for the same breed had their origin in intense dissatis.faction on the part of a group which was not in control, either because it was a minority or because control had been seized by another group which could not be ousted with the existing machinery for governing that association. At one time there were seven separate organizations recording Poland China pedigrees. The number was not finally reduced to one until 1946. The current problems of the breed associations are numerous. Financial problems have been acute with many associations since 1920. Nearly all of the swine and sheep associations and some of the cattle and horse associations have suspended publication of their herdbooks. What the final substitute for the printed herdbook will be is not yet evident. In some breeds there are still two or more registration associa.tions, with some duplication of operating expenses. An innovation which is still in the experimental stage in the United States, although it was used by breeders of Thoroughbreds a century ago and advocated by Thomas Bates as a means of overcoming what he thought were defects in the conduct of the Coates Herdbook for Short.horns, is the filing of birth certificates which act as tentative registra.tions . They keep the date of birth and the records of parentage straight but permit the owner to wait until the animal is mature to complete the registration. This is a common practice in those European associa.tions which require inspection for conformation. Since such inspection must wait until the animal approaches maturity , records of parentage might become lost or incorrect in the interval if this precaution of filing a birth certificate were not taken . The increasing percentages which are incorrect when registration is delayed is illustrated by the following dataa on 19,172 Holstein-Friesian applications received during a six.weeks period. AGE PERCENTAGEJNCORRECT U oder 2 months .... . ... . . . 13 2-6 months . .. ..... .... . 21 6-12 months .. ... ....... . 25 12-18 months ... .. . ... ... . 33 18-24 months .... . ..... . . . 44 Over 24 months .. ... . .... . 53 The Jersey association has recently experimented with selective registry and a pedigree rating system (the "star bull " plan) for bulls. Several dairy associations are trying plans for calling attention officially to unusually meritorious proved sires; for example, the Ayrshire approved sire plan, and the Holstein-Friesian publication of sire indexes. Herdbooks, as printed in the past , permit the tracing of pedigrees in only one direction; that is, one can learn from the herdbook what an animal's ancestors were but cannot find what offspring it had. Often a full list of an animal's offspring is more valuable than all that could be learned by studying its pedigree. Most breed associations maintain office records which will permit making such lists (at least from ¥ Holstein-Friesian World, June 21, 1941, page 708. Animal Breeding Plans females), but those are not published. The nearest approach to pub.lished lists of this kind is in the reports of official testing in the dairy breeds where the tested offspring of a given sire or dam may quickly be found. Usually little or nothing is published about the offspring which were not tested officially, although the Ayrshire association attempts to learn what became of each untested daughter of the bulls in its "approved sire plan." In the United States the breed associations receive no direct finan.cial support from the state or national governments. Correspondingly there is no governmental control or supervision of the associations or their activities, beyond whatever legal regulations apply in general to all nonprofit corporations or associations. However, the representatives of the United States Department of Agriculture and of the state agri.cultural colleges cooperate in many ways with the breed associations in activities which are expected to improve the practical merits of the breeds or to benefit the buyers of purebred sires. Examples are the supervision of official production tests for the dairy breeds, helping in the management and promotion of livestock shows, conducting pure.bred sire campaigns, promoting the use of proven sires, etc. In some countries the governments extend considerable financial aid and cor.respondingly exert some control over association policies. The details of such arrangements vary widely . Examples are Switzerland, The Netherlands, and (especially since 1936) Germany. In other countries, such as Canada and the Union of South Africa, the government coop.erates in supervising registration and printing the herdbooks but does not participate in or control other activities of the associations. In yet other countries, such as Denmark and Argentina, the herdbooks are conducted by farmers cooperatives or by a "Rural Society," and the breed association either does not exist or is an advisory and promo.tional body. Most of the breed improvement has to be done by the breeder him.self. The association stands ready to help and advise him, but it does not select the animals he shall use or decide which he shall cull, except in the comparatively few cases where animals are barred from registry because they possess some undesired characteristic. Nor does the asso.ciation decide which males shall be mated to which females. The actual selections and the choice of a mating system are left almost entirely to the individual breeder to do as he sees fit, provided his animals are purebred and the correctness of their pedigrees is unchallenged. Breed associations must remain more or less responsive to the opinions of the majority of the breeders and therefore cannot be expected to do much pioneering or testing of new and unpopular ideas. This will have to be done by venturesome breeders or by public research institutions. Prac.tical experience indicates that breed associations are necessary for breed improvement, since practically every breed wi1ich has persisted long has soon developed an association to look after its interests. Yet the associa-á tion's part is on the whole the conservative one of helping hold what.ever average merit the breed has already attained and acquainting the beginner and the public with what is considered ideal by most breeders of that breed. Most of the aggressive positive work toward improving the merit of the breed to still higher levels will have to be done by individual breeders who are unusually able, energetic, persevering, or lucky. REFERENCES Anonymous. 1930. "Notice-Registration Cancelled." Holstein-Friesian World, 27 (No. 24):1177. Advanced Registry Office. 1936. Pedigrees. Holstein-Friesian World, 33:300. Engeler, W. 1931. Studies on the development and situation of pedigree registering in the cattle-breeding industry. 92 pp. Internat. Inst. of Agr., Rome. 1936. Die Entwicklung des Herdebuchwesens unter dem Einfluss dcr Lehren von der Vererbung und Ziichtung bei den landwirtschaftlichen Haustieren. (In) Neue Forschungen in Tierzucht. Bern. Peterson, Guy A. 1919. Swedish herdbook registration. Hoard 's Dairyman, 74:62. Plumb, Charles S. 1930. Registry books on farm animals. Van den Bosch, l.G.J. 1930. The Holstein industry in America. The scoring system in the Netherlands. Holstein-Friesian World, 27:283 and 337. Wilson, C. V. 1925. A study of the breeding records of a group of Shorthorn cows. West Virginia Agr. Exp. Sta., Bui. 198. Early volumes of the herdbooks of the breeds in which you arc interested. Read especially the minutes of some of the early business meetings. CHAPTER6 The Mendelian Basis of Inheritance ~ PARTICULATE AND DUPLICATE NATURE OF INHERITANCE The essence of Mendelism is that inheritance is by particles or units (called genes hereafter) and that these genes are present in pairs, one member of each pair having come from each parent. Each gene main.tains its identity generation after generation instead of blending with the other genes to form a new kind or blend of hereditary substance, as was thought in pre-Mendelian days. When the individual reprod~es, it transmits to each offsprmg one or tlie other, but not both, of the genes in each pair it possesses. :rhus the parent gives to each offspring only a sample half of its own inheritance. The laws of chance govern ' this samplmg, subject to the restriction that each sample must contain one gene of every pair. This s~mpling nature of the process of inherit.ance, scarcely suspected in pre-Mendelian days, allows a parent to trans.mit different inheritance to different offspring. More precisely, if we let Aa represent a pair of genes in a parent which has two offspring, there is one chance in four (the exact result in individual cases varying, of course, according to the laws of sampling) that both offspring will get A. There is one chance in four that both will get a and there are two chances in four that one will get A and the other will get a. Similar probabilities apply to every other pair of genes. Thus, about half of the genes which two offspring receive from the same parent (i.e., about one-fourth of all the genes they have) are exact duplicates; but the other genes the two get from that parent (another fourth of all the genes they have) were opposite members of the pairs in that parent. In those pairs of genes for which the parent was homozygous it will not matter which gene of the pair is transmitted, for the result will be the same with either. Most parents are heterozygous for many pairs of genes. Here lies the explanation of the fact that identical pedigrees do not mean identical inheritance, although they usually do mean a con.siderable degree of likeness. 1 That identity of pedigree (as of full broth.1 To illustrate the Mendelian basis for the fact that identity of pedigree generally means similarity but not identity of inheritance, let us consider the probable results of a particular mating in a breed heterozygous for many pairs of genes and mating at random with respect to each pair. If the contrasting alleles in each pair are equally frequent in the breed, then the most probable Mendelian formula of mates chosen at [ 48] ers) does not mean identical heredity was well known in pre-Mendelian days but either was regarded as one of the unexplained mysteries of heredity or interpreted to mean that a large amount of entirely new inheritance (mutations we would say today) had arisen in each indi.vidual. Since half of the inheritance comes from each parent, except in the case of sex-linked genes, and since in each pair the gene received from the sire and gene received from the dam are equally likely to be trans.mitted to any one offspring, most of the facts of inheritance when expressed in quantitative form involve the fraction l/2. It is only a small exaggeration to say that the mathematics of genetics is the algebra of 1/2! Dominance is not an essential part of Mendelism, although Mendel himself noted it. It is a ready explanation of some cases of "reversion" or "atavism," but not the only explanation for those. The chief part played by dominance is to increase the variability of the population slightly and to make certain genotypes indistinguishable from each other. There is nothing in the mechanism of inheritance which would cause a dominant gene to increase in numbers at the expense of its recessive allel, or the reverse. If q is the proportion of A genes and 1 -q is the proportion of a genes in the population and p is the pr~ portion of heterozygotes, then no matter what system of mating pre.vails, the zygotic ratio will be (q -p/2)AA:p Aa: (1 -q -p/2) aa. If these have equal opportunity to reproduce (that is, if no selection for or against either of the three genotypes prevails), then the proportion of A genes in the next generation will be q -p/2 from the AA individ.uals plus p/2 from the Aa individuals which equals q in the whole random can be illustrated as below, the mates being alike in some genes and unlike in others. How many different kinds of full sibs could there be from this particular mating? How many different kinds of half sibs could come from this one sire (or dam) mated to all the different kinds of mates which exist in the breed? How many different kinds of individuals can exist in the entire breed? The Mendelian formulae of the parents and the answers to each of these three questions may be indicated as follows: Formula of sire: AABbccDdeeFfGGHhli]jKKIIMMNnooPp Formula of dam: AABbCcDDeeffGgHhii]jKkLLmmNNOoPp Kinds of full sibs: lx3x2x2xlx2x2x3x2x3x2xlxlx2x2x3 = 20,736 Kinds of paternal half sibs: 2x3x2x3x2x3x2x3x3x3x2x2x2x3x2x3 = 1,679,616 Kinds in breed: 3x3x3x3x3x3x3x3x3x3x3x3x3x3x3x3 =43,046.721 Since there are more than twenty thousand kinds of full sibs possible from this mating, it is unlikely that two full sibs even from among a large number would hap.pen to b.e exactly alike. Yet less than one two-thousandth of the total number of kinds of individuals possible in the whole breed are possible at all in this particular set of full sibs. This sire could not possibly sire a twenty-fifth of the kinds possible in the whole breed, no matter what kind of mates he had. This example is schematic in two important respects: first, many more than 16 pairs of 9enes are doubtless heterozyg.ous in all breeds; and, second, it would be a surprising coincidence if the unlike alleles were equally numerous in more than a few of those pairs. Animal Breeding Plans population, the same as it was in the preceding generation. Without selection the Mendelian mechanism itself does not change gene ratios except, of course, that it permits sampling variations to occur in the segregation process at each generation. Those are slight except in very small populations. There they cause the phenomena of inbreeding. POST-MENDELIAN ADDfflONS TO THE LAWS OF JNIIERITANCE Mendel knew nothing of chromosomes or linkage. The achieve.ments of genetics in the last third of a century in identifying the chromosomes as the carriers of the genes have not changed the laws which Mendel discovered, except to modify the law of independent assortment so that it is now known to apply only to genes which are on different chromosomes . Cytological investigations of the mammals and birds are unusually difficult because the number of chromosome pairs is large, the chromosomes are small, and the processes of killing, fixing, and staining are apt to cause the chromosomes to "clump" together, so that the observer cannot be sure how many there are. Because of these difficulties, mammalian and avian chromosomes have not been so well investigated as those of most farm crops and of many lower animals. In several cases investigators do not yet agree in their counts. Some species have been studied by only one investigator. Most of the findings quoted in table I are still subject to confirmation. 2 Work much older than 1920 is quoted only where no subsequent work has been reported, or where this earlier work has been quoted widely. In general the later work is more apt to be correct. On account of the "clumping," the larger numbers are more likely to be correct wherever there is not yet substantial agreement. Most farm animals have around 20 to 30 pairs of chromosomes; hence two genes chosen at random will nearly always be independent of each other. Yet if one is considering a trait affected by more than six or seven pairs of genes, there is likely to be linkage among some of them. 8 On account of linkage, genes which were transmitted to the parent together (i.e., which both came to it from the same one of its parents) will be transmitted together to the offspring more often than if they were independent. Yet in the population as. a whole, if crossing-over occurs at all, the "repulsion" and "coupling" phases soon become equal.ly frequent, thus causing linkage to hinder selection (in a hitherto unselected population) in about as many cases as it helps. Hence link.¥ For a more complete list and references, see: Oguma, Kan, and Kakino, Sajiro. 1932. A revised check -list of the chromosome number in vertebrata. ]our. of Genet.ics, 26:2!19-54, and for birds: Miller, R. A. 1938. Anatomical Record 70:156-58. ¥ The chicken, the mouse, and the rat are the only farm animals for which the construction of linkage maps is yet well along. See ]our. of Heredity !ll:232 -35 and !16:271-7!!. Some mapping has begun with the silkworm and with cattle. age does not offer the breeder much chance to get one gene by selecting another closely linked to it. The effects of linkage in causing two genes or cl1aracteristics to be together or apart more often than not are con.spicuous only in the first few generations after a cross between two unusually homozygous races-a condition which rarely confronts the animal breeder under our present purebreeding systems. The existence TABLE 1 RECENT REPORTS OP CHROMOSOME NUMBERS IN MAMMALS AND POULTRY Number of Hetero-Pairs of gametic Investigator and Date Animal Chromosomes Sex of Publication Fann animals: Hone ............. Ass ............... Mule ........ ...... Camel. ... .. ....... Cattle ....... .. .... Yak ....... . . . . . .. . Buffalo .... . . . . ' ... Sheep. . . . . . . . . . Goat .............. Swine .......... . . . Dog .............. . Cat .... . .......... Farm poultry: Chicken ........... Duck .............. 30 19 19 32 Unpaired, 51 in all 35 30 19 30 30 30 24 27 30 30 30 19 19 26* 39 19 19 33 39 40 16 to 37 38 to 39 39 Male Male Male . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......... Male Male Male . ......... . ......... .......... Male Male Male Male Male Male Male Male Male Male Female Female Female Female Female Female Painter, 1945 Wodsedalek, 1914 Masui, 1919 Sokolov, 1937 Wodsedalek, 1916 Novikov, 1940 Krallinger, 1931 W odsedalek, 1 920 Makino, 1944 Zuitin, 1938 Pchakadse, 1939 Makino, 1944 Berry, 1941 Several workers, 1931 to 1940 Krallinger, 1931 Warwick , 1935 Krallinger, 19 36 Crew and Koller, 1939 Painter, 1925 Ahmed, 1941 Minouchi, 1928 Koller, 1941 White, 1932 Y amashima, 1944 Miller, 1 9 38 Various authors since 1923 Werner, 1927 Sokolov, tt al., 1936 Turkey ............ 23 to 39 Female Various authors, 1929 to 1936 T ABLE 1 (Continued) Pea cock ..... . Pigeon ... . ... I vt:s.'.1'.~~-mals_: . . .1 Chimpanzee . . . . . . j Old World monkey . á1 New World monkey. I N yctereutes (raccoon dog) ... . .. ...... Red fox ... . ... . ... F..>x: V. vulpes . .... V. lagopus .... V. fulva ...... Rat . ....... . ... . Mouse .. .. . ... . Deer mice (Pero.myscus) . . . ...... Rabbit . . .. Guinea pig ........ á 1 Mink .... . .. Hamster, golden . ...¥ striped .. .. Twelve other species of rodents ... ... . Peccary . . ......... Armadillo .... ..... Bat . ......... . . Hedgehog .. . . Opossum .. ..... Kangaroo ....... .. . I Eight other genera of manupiall ... . . I 18 to 29 31 25± 34± 24 24 27 27 21 21 17 26 16 21 20 24 to 29 22 22 19 31 33 14 19 7 22 to 43 (only 3 above 27) 15 30 24 24 11 11 6 6 to 10 Female Female Female Female Male Male? Male Male Male Male . ...... . . ..... ... . Male Male Male . ...... . . Male Male Male Male Male Male Male Male . . . . .. . . . . ... .. .... . .... .. . .. Male? ..... .. ... Male Male . ... ...... I Male Tiniakow, 1934 Oguma , 1927 Hance, 1933 Painter and Cole, 1943 Many recent authors Yeager ti al., 1940 Painter, 1925 Paint er, 1925 Minouchi , 1929 Wodsedalek, 1931 Andres , 1938 and Wipf , 1942 Andres, 1938 Bishop, 1942 Many recent authors Many recent authors Cross, 1938 Painter, 1926 Minouchi and Ohta , 1932 Harman and Root, 1926 League, 1928 Mols, 1928 Schackelford and Wipf , 1947 Koller, 1938 Pontecorvo, 1943 Cross, 1931 Krallinger, 1936 Painter , 1925 Painter, 1925 Painter , 1925 Hoy and George , 1929 Painter, 1925 Painter, 1925 I Various authors of linkage causes the genes to tend to segregate in large groups at any one cell division and hence causes the population to behave as if there were fewer genes than there actually are. But this effect is probably unimportant, since the cross-overs in different cells, even in the same individual, may be at various places on the chromosomes and since genes with opposite effects are as likely to be linked together as are genes with similar effects. Linkage is some hindrance to progress by selection (after the first generation) since it keeps desired and unde.sired genes from recombining into separate gametes as often as they would if not linked. This lessens slightly the variability among the immediate offspring of selected parents and consequently reduces the amount which can be accomplished by selecting among them. Mendel did not know of sex-linkage which, in the heterogametic sex, is an exception to the rule that inheritance is in duplicate and comes equally from both parents. Only one pair of chromosomes car.ries the sex-linked genes. Presumably something like one-twentieth or one-thirtieth of all the genes are sex-linked, áalthough that is only a rough approximation since the sex-chromosomes might carry more or less than their proportionate share of the genes. To ignore sex-linkage will generally lead to but little error; yet there doubtless is some sex.linkage in all farm animals, and probably there are occasional charac.teristics which are affected by a disproportionately large share of sex-linked genes. The general effect of sex-linkage is to make parent and offspring of opposite sex resemble each other slightly more than parent and offspring of the same sex do. Here and there it has some conspicu.ous special effect, such as making possible, in some matings, the identifi.cation of sex in very young poultry. Partial sex-linkage is known genetically in man and pre~umably exists in all other mammals in which portions of the X-chromosome cross over with portions of the Y-chromosome. The practical consequences are like those of sex-link.age but even less noticeable. IS THERE ANY NON-MENDELIAN INHERITANCE? Each year of genetic research brings added evidence that all inherit.ance is Mendelian in the broad sense of being in duplicate and particulate, with the particles maintaining their identity. The only well-established exceptions are plastid inheritance, known only from plants, and polyploidy, where inheritance is particulate but present in more than duplicate. Polyploidy seems to be very rare in animals, although it appears to have been important in the evolutionary history of the plant kingdom. On account of the sampling nature of inherit.ance, polyploidy must be a temporary condition lasting only a few gen.erations until the polyploid individuals either die out or develop a new diploid division among their chromosomes. A few cases of inheritance through the maternal line only have been reported. Most of those have later been found to require some other explanation. Often it is found by further experiment that these were characteristics for which the unfertilized ovum was already organized and the genes which the sperm brought are merely delayed a generation in expressing their effects. Whether the shells of certain snails coil to the left or to the right is an example. It may never be possible to prove rigorously that all inheritance is Mendelian in this sense, for so long as the inheritance of any character¥ istic is unknown, an obstinate skeptic might still say: "Perhaps the inheritance of that characteristic conforms to some other rule." It is a fact, however, that many cases of inheritance which were at one time thought not to behave in the Mendelian manner, have been shown by more thorough analysis to behave in that very way except that the num.ber of factors is large or that the interactions between different factors are unusually complicated or that the egg was already so highly organ.ized that the genes in the sperm cell could not show some of their effects until the next generation. Moreover, the ineffectiveness of selection within pure lines seems to be some positive evidence that there can be no appreciable amount of truly "blending" inheritance. (Cf. Fisher, pp. 17-18.) THE NUMBER OF GENES There are at least four kinds of evidence which show something about the total number of pairs of genes in certain species. They leave little doubt that the breeder of farm animals must contend with a genetic situation in which the number of different pairs of genes hetero.zygous in his herd or flock is at least many scores, probably many hun.dreds, and perhaps even a few thousands. The first kind of evidence is the number of genes which have actual.ly been found in the organisms studied most. In Drosophila melano.gaster more than 500 different loci have already been located on the chromosome maps, and many more are known. In D. pseudoobscura there are in the third chromosome alone at least 289 loci which can mutate to lethal genes (Genetics 26:39). Baur and his co-workers found some 300 genes in the snapdragon, Antirrhinum majus . In com (Zea mays) some 400 genes had been catalogued up to 1935 (Rhoades and McClintock). In the wasp, Habrobracon juglandis, about 100 mutations at separate loci are known. In Datura (the genus which includes the Jimsonweed) about 500 genes were known, 77 of them located on the chromosome map, by 194l. The inherilance of more than I00 charac.ters has been studied in barley (Genetics 28:419). In man more than 200 genes have been reported, some 45 of them on the X-chromosome, but the evidence for many of those is scanty because controlled experi.mental matings are not possible. The number of genes reported for most species of farm animals is only a few dozen, 4 and many of those are not very certainly established, but only a few thousand farm animals have been observed under such circumstances that genes would have been identified readily. This kind of evidence has two limitations: First, only genes with effects conspicuous enough to permit their ready identification can be catalogued in the Mendelian manner. Genes with minor effects can only be lumped together in an indefinite background of "modifying factors." Second, the number already found provides scarcely any basis for guessing whether that number is only a tiny fraction or a large frac.tion of the total number which exists. Certainly the number reported is less than the actual number. A second kind of evidence comes from cytology. vVork (Journal of Heredity 33:403-7, 1942.) on the chromosomes in the salivary glands of Drosophila shows about 5,000 distinct bands; and t_he cytogenetics of deletions, inversions, etc., makes it seem plausible that each of these is a gene, although it remains possible that there may be several genes in some bands. Belling in studying the chromosomes of the lily was able to distinguish about 2,200 to 2,500 "chromomeres," or distinct seg.ments of its chromosomes; but the genetics of the lily is not well enough known to show how closely the genes and the chromomeres correspond to each other. Each chromosome in the farm animals surely must carry many genes; but the cytology of mammals and birds is difficult and little except number is known of it so far. A third kind of evidence comes from some indirect reasoning, based on the number of times certain mutations recurred. The first such esti.mate was a figure of about l,800 loci, but it was recognized that the assumptions involved made this lower than the true figure. Gowen and Gay in 1933 reached an estimate of 14,280 loci in Drosophila. This estimate had a large sampling error but was thought to have no con.sistent bias either in the direction of largeness or of smallness. Muller and Prokofyeva in 1935 reached the conclusion that in Drosophila the total number of loci" ... is of the order of a few (ca. 5-10) thousand." A fourth kind of evidence comes from the experiments on quantita.¥ For example, Ibsen in l 9llll listed 17 pairs of genes and one multiple allelic series of genes affecting color in cattle. He mentions several other color characteris.tics, the mode of inheritance of which was not yet clarified. In the fowl 21 genes are already (1940) located in six linkage groups (lour. of Heredity lll:2lll-ll5), and other genes áare known but not located. tive inheritance which require for their interpretation a mmnnum number of genes if those express their effects in the very simplest way (i.e., without dominance or other nonadditive interactions). Sumner's experiments with mice of the genus Peromyscus showed that many of the quantitative characteristics in which two varieties or local races differed were each affected by many genes for which neither population was homozygous. "Student" interpreted the Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station's work in selecting corn for high and for low oil content as showing that the oil percentage in the initial stock of corn " .. á . was conditioned by the presence, or absence, of a number of genes, at least of the order 20-40, possibly of 200-400, and not at all like.ly to be of the order 5-10." The Illinois Station's work with the Bowlker herd, which was produced by crossing Guernseys and Holstein-Frie.sians, has been interpreted (page 123, Annual Report for 1928-29) as requiring more than IO pairs of genes to explain the breed difference in milk yield and several more pairs of genes to explain the breed differ.ence in the percentage of fat. The Tranekjaer experiments with Jersey and Red Danish cattle in Denmark indicate that at least seven pairs of genes were concerned with the difference in fat percentage between those breeds.fi Jull concludes that in the fowl sexual maturity, rate of laying, and persistency of laying are each " ... affected by a relatively large number of genes, some of which probably influence more than one character." Many other examples might be cited, each yielding fig.ures of from 4 or 5 up to more than 20 as the minimum number of pairs of genes affecting a given quantitative characteristic. The usual result of an experiment on the genetics of a quantitative characteristic is that the number of genes involved "cannot be less than" a certain number, but might be larger. Usually the longer the genetic investigation continues, the more genes are found. In such experiments the evidence which throws light on gene number usually involves differences between the parental means and between the varia.bilities of the parental groups, the F1 or the F2 or the back-crosses, or it concerns the change produced in the mean and in the variability by a given amount of selection. Often the numbers are small and the samp.ling errors are high. Those may make the answer obtained _ either too large or too small. Nearly all other sources of error make the answer smaller than it should be. Thus, this kind of evidence can only show that the number of genes is more than a certain small number which, however, is usually too large to leave any reasonable hope that even the ¥ Wriedt pos111la1cd that one pair of genes would account for the breed differ.ence; hut, as Skovs1ed pointed out . not enough of the parental types reappeared in the hack-crosses or in the F2 to justify that. The figure seven mentioned here is based on comparisons of parental means and F1 , F, and back-cross variabilities. most thorough study will enable a breeder to know the Mendelian formula for all the important genes in any of his animals. A fifth line of reasoning, which perhaps scarcely deserves to be called evidence until more is known about the physiology of how the genes produce their effects,6 is that the development and functioning of each organ in the animal is so complex and is dependent upon such a deli.cate interplay of various tissues, hormones, fluids, etc., each acting at the proper time, that it is scarcely conceivable that a small number of genes can initiate and control all of this. The term "unit character" which was freely used in the early days of genetics tends to be avoided now, lest it confuse by implying that one gene by itself is enough to pro.duce the whole characteristic. The gene, not the characteristic, is the unit of Mendelism. In a sense it may be legitimate (and it is often con.venient) to refer to the contrast between two characteristics-for exam.ple, red eye and white eye in Drosophila-as a unit character since, in some matings at least.!. the difference between the two characteristics is "'t:llf.lseo by a difference in only one pair of genesJ Yet it is confusing to spealtof-t'ed eye as a unit character, since more than 40 genes have been found thus far which must all be present if the usual red eye of the wild fly is to develop. If one of them is absent, the eye may be "purple"; if another is absent, it may be "peach"; etc.; but the co-operation of them all (and doubtless of still unknown genes) is required to produce the normal eye. The cooperation of at least 100 genes is necessary to produce normal green chlorophyll color in corn. (Amer. Nat. 80:431). The fact that many distinct abnormalities and defects are caused by a change in only one gene is to be expected if that gene interrupts, at some important stage for which there is no substitute, the long chain of physiologic processes by which the normal characteristic usually devel.ops. For example, in the normal process of horn formation in cattle there may be several stages which, if interrupted, would alter or prevent all the later stages of development; but it is not easy to imagine that any one gene could guide the whole course of horn development, including the growth of the bony core, the blood vessels, nerves, etc. Thus, it may be legitimate to speak of a single gene for hornlessness: but it is not legitimate to infer that the allelic gene to that one is the gene which produces horns. The case is analogous to that of destroying a house by a single act, such as applying a match to it at any one of a number of places. But a house can be built only by the timely co-opera.tion of an enormous number of individual acts. It is scarcely legitimate to speak of refraining from applying the match as an act which builds the house. ¥ See Quart. Rev. of Biology 13:140-68 and Physiological Reviews 21:487-527. I \ '.The eradication of single-gene defects, such as lethals and semi.lethal s, may be an important part of the task of animal breeding ; but its practical importance can scarcely approach that of changing the fertil.ity, vitality, growth rates, proportions of conformation, milk produc.tion, speed, wool production, etc., which are most of the economic differences between ordinary or moderately inferior and distinctly superior animals. The genetic evidence indicates that these are com.plex physiological characteristics in which most of the hereditary differences are caused by a large number of genes, each with an indi.vidually small effect. CONSEQUENCF.S OF THE LARGE NUMBER OF GENF.S When only one pair of genes is concerned, two kinds of gametes and three kinds of genotypes are possible. If there are two pairs of genes, each possibility for the one may occur in combination with each possi.bility of the other, thus permitting four kinds of gametes and nine kinds of genotypes. Three pairs of genes permit 8 kinds of gametes and 27 kinds of genotypes. The general formulae are: the number of kinds of gametes or of homozygous genotypes possible with n pairs of genes is 3010 );2n (which may be written 10-the number of different kinds of genotypes possible is 3n (which may be writen 10á477n). These numbers become big beyond human comprehension if n is very large. Even if there are only 100 pairs of genes, 31 digits will be needed for writing the number of kinds of gametes possible; and there will be 48 digits in the number of kinds of genotypes possible. The r~sibilities for hered.itary differences under this system are enormous. '2' hey may be visual.ized by comparing them with the number of animals of each species actually alive in the whole world at any one time. During the years around 1926 to 1935 these were as follows for man and for some of the more important farm animals (figures from USDA Yearbooks): TENS OF MILLIONS Human beings ......... . . . .... .. .. ..... 200 Cattle .. . .... ....... .. .. ....... .. . ... ... 70 Horses . .. .... ........ . ... . . . .. . ..... ... 10 Mules and asses . . . . . .... . .. . .. . ........ ... 3 Sheep ..... . . . ...... . .... . .. . ... ... 69 to 74 Swine . .. . . ... ... .. ... . ........ . ... 25 to 28 Chickens (in the United States onl y) . .. . . . .. 44 Hence, if the number of different genes heterozygous in each species i.6as large as 40 (and it may well be thousands), the number of different hereditary combinations possible in each species is millions on millions of times as large as the number of animals which can actually be alive at any one time. It would be a remarkable coincidence if any two living things were exactly alike in all their heredity, except for a few special cases such as identical twins, asexually reproduced organisms, and pos.sibly members of a strain which had been very highly inbred for a long time. Gesell says (Science 88:227): "Even in the detailed studies of ani.mal respiration, it has been found that no two dogs breathe exactly al~" , Another comparison to show vividly the enormous number of dif.ferent kinds of individuals possible is furnished by the physicists' esti.mate that the number of electrons in the universe is about 1080 ¥ In a species in which only 200 pairs of genes are heterozygous there could be 1095 different kinds of individuals. This is a million billion times as many as there are electrons in the universe! In these calculations it was assumed that there are only two allelic genes in each series. In several cases it is already known that there are three or more different kinds of genes in an allelic series (called "multi.ple alleles" in genetics), and it is possible that all allelic series are poten.tially multiple .7 This increases the number of kinds of gametes and geno_types possible. If m alleles are possible in each of n allelic series, the number of different kinds of gametes possible is m0 and the number of different kinds of genotypes possible is [m(m + I) Tá 2 Linkage does not affect the number of kinds of gametes which may be produced but does affect their proportions and thereby increases the size of population necessary to permit all kinds of genotypes to be pro.duced. Also, it increases the number of genotypes possible because the multiple heterozygotes will now be different genotypes according to whether the linkage is in the coupling or repulsion phase. That is, AB ---=-ab and Ab will be different genotypes if linkage exists, whereas both aB would have been the same genotype, AaBb, if there had been no link.age. A triple heterozygote, where all three genes are linked, can exist in four different genotypes, a quadruple heterozygote in eight geno.types, etc. 'Several series have already been found in which there are more than four alleles. The albino series in the rabbit is an example. The maximum numher yet reported in any organism is 45 alleles for a self-sterility gene in one of the primroses, Oenoth era organensis. Genetics 26:469. More than 22 alleles are known in the white eye series in Drosophila m elanogaster and more than 40 at the locus for "oohbed." In man at least four alleles exist to determine the blood types. A, A', B, and 0, and more than a half dozen alleles at the locus for the rh blood factor have been reported. Both these additional complications-multiple alleles and linkage.increase the number of kinds of genotypes possible. Unless the number of heterozygous genes is very small, there is no escaping the conclusion that the number of genetically different kinds of individuals possible in a breed or species is practically infinite. Except in the rare case of iden.tical twins, one can confidently expect to breed cattle, or any other species of farm animal, a lifetime without ever having a second animal exactly like one he produced earlier. If each gene had a different kind of effect and there was no confu.sion by environmentally caused variations or by dominance, the num.ber of kinds of animals different in appearance or performance would be the same as the number of kinds of genotypes. If all pairs of genes showed complete dominance, but each pair of genes had a different effect, the number of kinds of animals would be the same as the num.ber of kinds of gametes . But if very many genes are involved, some will produce effects like those of others, some will produce effects only when certain others are present, and some will produce the same effects as variations in environment do. Therefore, if the genetic situation is at all complicated, the outwardly distinguishable kinds of animals grade into each other in an almost continuous series. When we classify a large group of animals on the basis of outward appearance or performance in any one characteristic, even with considerable precision, we are almost certain to include in each class many genetically different kinds of individuals. THE GENETIC INTERPRETATION OF THE "PURITY" OF PURE BREEDS In animal breeding usage, purity of breeding refers to ancestry and is not the same as the genetic term "homozygosity," although there is some slight relationship between the two . The purebred animal is one whose ancestors all belonged to that same breed for as far back as is required by the rules governing registration in that breed. Since all breeds are finitely limited in the number of animals alive at any one time, and many breeds were very small in numbers for a long time dur.ing their formative period, a certain amount of homozygosity was pro.duced by the resultant inbreeding. This is usually a faint force in pure breeding as practiced today in breeds which have become large and successful, but occasionally was intense during the formative period when the breed was very small. The Shorthorn breed, which has the oldest pedigree record, probably lost through the inbreeding process about 25 or 30 per cent of its initial heterozygosity in the century and a third from its foundation to 1920. Most of this was lost in the formative stage while the ancestry of the future breed was largely included in the herds of the Colling brothers, who both shaped their breeding opera.tions to an unusual degree around one bull, Favourite. In most breeds yet studied, the breed is now losing something like one-half of one per cent of its heterozygosis per generation . In breeds of cattle and sheep, where the average length of generation is around four or five years, this would mean that in a century the mere fact of absolute purity of breed.ing would cause a decrease of about 10 per cent in the amount of het.erozygosity initially present. This would be partially offset by the occasional registration of a grade through fraud, accident, or official permission, and by the new mutations which might occur and survive during that century. In addition to these three processes of inbreeding, introduction of outside blood, and mutation, selection may have helped either to increase or to decrease the average homozygosity of the breed. Selection, however-in marked contrast to its effectiveness in changing average merit-is a very feeble tool for changing homozygosity, except under the very simplest genetic situations, as we shall see in chapter 11. It is not likely, therefore, that selection has made much change in the average homozygosity of the pure breeds since they were first separated from the general population, although it has certainl y changed the breed averages distinctly in many cases. It is sometimes argued that, while the total number of genes may perhaps run into the thousands, yet most breeds (or subgroups of a species in nature) will be homozygous for all but a few of those. This seems improbable, since no genetic mechanism is known by which that condition would be likely to be attained in the first place nor by which it could be maintained very long if it ever were reached. If a breed or species ever became entirely homozygous for a given pair of genes, mutations-even at a very low rate-would cause that homozygosis to be lost bit by bit. Selection is too feeble to restore complete homozygosity as rapidly as mutation destroys it, especially if the mutations are usual.ly recessive, although selection is amply powerful to keep consistently undesirable mutant genes from becoming abundant. Inbreeding can be powerful enough to restore that homozygosity, but it is doubtful wheth.er it often is intense enough in nature or in the breeding of large and popular breeds to achieve that end. Wright estimates 8 that a freely interbreeding species of one million individuals at equilibrium with one new mutation in each 1,000 individuals could support permanently some 30,000 unfixed loci, which is larger than any of the current esti.mates of total gene number. In other words, few genes in such a species would be entirely homozygous all through the species. Smaller species ¥ Genetics, 16:119--21. See also table 5 in Fisher ás Genetical Theory of Natural Selection. would not support so many9 unfixed loci. The inbreeding which the pure breeds of livestock undergo comes mostly not from the smallness of the breed in absolute numbers but from the circumstance that many breeders are simultaneously using sons or grandsons of a few currently famous sires.10 When the pure breeds finall'y reach equilibrium between the production of heterozygosis by mutations and the loss of heterozy.gosis because the effective number of animals in the breed is small, it is possible that the ,pure breed may support only a few scores of unfixed loci. But it is unlikely that the pure breeds have come at all close to that equilibrium point in the comparatively short time (in terms of animal generations) since they were organized. It seems entirely con.servative to estimate that the average pure breed is still heterozygous for hundreds of pairs of genes, although, of course, no animal in it is heterozygous for even half of them and probably no one gene is hetero.zygous in even half of the members of a breed. MUTATIONS Mutation is a rare process. The mutation rates observed in the lab.oratory under otherwise natural conditions are generally around the magnitude of one mutation of each gene in 100,000 or 1,000,000 genera.tions (Stadler, Gowen). The rate is not the same for all genes, however, and can be increased by such extreme environments as exposure to X-rays, radium, ultraviolet light or barely sublethal temperatures. Also a few genes which alter the mutation rates of other genes have been found. Dr. H. D. King observed among 45,000 Norway rats 6 different mutations affecting hair; but the number of genes affecting hair (i.e., the number exposed to mutation) is not known, nor can one be sure how many mutations with small effects occurred but were not observed. White and Ibsen estimate (]our. Genetics 32:47) that in cattle the mutation rate from horned to polled is about one in 20,000. Haldane estimates that the mutation rate to hemophilia in man is about one in 30,000. More typical is the finding of Dobzhansky and Wright (Genet.ics 26:32) that in the third chromosome of Drosophila pseudoobscura the mutation rate to lethals must be less than three in 289,000. If there are 5,000 genes in each individual, then only about one animal in every 20 or 200 would have even one gene which was a new ¥ The same formula gives nearly 2,560 as the number of unfixed loci in a species of 100,000 individuals, 210 in a species of 10,000 and 16 in a species of only 1,000. Our ignorance of whether the rate postulated for mutation is too high or too low and our ignorance of whether the effective number of breeding individuals is far smaller or only a little smaller than the census number prevent us from using these figures with much confidence. 10 See Calder's study of the Clydesdale breed of horses. Proc. Rqy. Soc. Edinburgh 47 Part 2, No. 8:118-40. 1927. mutation. If the breeder were looking for a mutation in one certain gene, he could expect to find it in only one animal among something like 100,000 to 1,000,000 animals examined. 11 Even then, if this muta.tion produced only a small change in a characteristic also affected by environment and by other genes, the breeder looking for it would have only a small chance of recognizing it when he did see it. Mutations are not only rare, but they are prevailingly harmful. The larger the change made by a mutation, the less likely is the mutation to be beneficial to the animal. The reasons for this hinge around the facts that mutations seem to be random changes in the genes and that any living animal is already a reasonably successful and highly complicated mechanism. Any random change in its machinery has only a small chance of making it a still more successful mechanism but is very apt to make it operate less well.. The bigger the change, the less likely it is to improve the operation of the mechanism. 12 Hence the breeder does not yet have any reason to think that he can help his practical opera.tions by increasing mutation rates. Because mutations are rare and prevailingly harmful, the only sig.nificance they have for the breeder is that a tiny part of his efforts in selection must be spent in keeping these undesired newly mutated genes from becoming too numerous in the breed. Mutations do have great significance in evolution because they provide raw material which can be used by selection and inbreeding or other breeding sys.tems to change the existing kinds of organisms. Even if only 1 in 1,000 new mutations were beneficial, geologic time is so long that such rare beneficial mutations may be important in evolutionary changes. More.over, mutation serves an important evolutionary purpose by keeping (against the efforts of selection) a certain store of currently undesirable genes available in case the environment should change so as to reverse the direction of selection. For example, suppose a species well adapted to a life in a humid climate were by migration or change of climate forced to become better adapted to arid conditions. If mutation has kept in the species a few genes which make their possessors poorly adap.ted to a humid climate but better adapted to an arid climate, then 11 When Warren Gammon wished to estahlish a poUed variety of purebred Here.ford caule. he sent about I ,500 letters to breeders inquiring if they knew o( such animals. From the replies he learned of 14 purebred Herefords wh ich were polled, but some of these animal s may ha,e inherited their polledness from the same original mutation. We can onl y guess how man y horned cattle had been observed by the men who reported these 14 polled ones, or how man y of the 1,500 men who received these letters knew of polled caule hut neglected to reply. "See Fisher 's Tht: Gent:ti cal The ory of Natural Selt:ction, pp. !18-41, for more detailed reasoning on this point and for formulae relating the magnitude of a muta.tion 's effect to the probability of its being beneficial. when the conditions change, some of the newly desirable genes are already present. Selection may begin at once to increase their frequency. If mutation had not kept this store of formerly undesirable genes pres.ent, the species might have had to wait for the very slow process of mutation to produce them after the changed conditions arose. Waiting for the mutation might have taken so long that the species would have become extinct first. This consideration may be important in evolution but probably is rarely of any importance to the practical animal breed.er, since he is concerned with so much shorter periods of time . Perhaps it might have some slight bearing on such situations as that which occurred in the American breeds of swine between 1910 and 1920, when there was a marked change in ideals and the direction of selection in many particulars was reversed. GENE FREQUENCY A gene may be much more abundant than its allel or it may be rarer. Gene frequency will be represented here by the letter q, which can have values between zero and 1.0. It is the fraction of the loci of that allelic series in the whole population which are occupied by the gene in question. Two examples may illustrate q and its variations . In a count of the colors reported for the 6,000 parents of 3,000 Shorthorns chosen at random from the British, Canadian, and American herd.books, Wright found that 8.6 per cent were white, 43.8 per cent were roan and 47.6 per cent were red. Assuming that the roan is the heterozy.gote between the red and white (which fits the facts better than any other explanation yet advanced, although there may be some environ.mental or developmental overlapping between dark roans and reds), and letting q stand for the frequency of the gene for red, it is obvious that 4 7 .6 per cent of the genes in this locus are genes for red in the red animals and that 21.9 per cent of the genes in the population are genes for red in the roan animals, while another 21.9 per cent of the genes in the population are genes for white in the roan animals. The final 8.6 per cent of the genes which occupy this locus are genes for white in the white animals. The frequency, q, of the gene for red in the whole popu.lation is, therefore, .476 + .219 = .695; while the frequency of the gene for white is .219 + .086 = .305. If the population had been mating truly at random, the proportions of red, roan, and white would have been the square of the ratio of the two kinds of genes, or: q2 reds : 2q (1 -q) roans : (1 -q) 2 whites. The actual count shows a slight excess of roans and corresponding slight deficits of reds and whites, as follows: Color  Actual Percentage  Expected Percentage  Excess of Actual  Red  47.6  48.3  -.7  Roan  43.8  42.4  +1.4  White  8.6  9.3  - .7  The discrepancy, although slight, appears to be significant statistically and is probably to be explained as a result of the practical breeder's preference for roan and his having observed long ago that the propor¥ tion of roans was higher from matings of white by red than from any other type of mating. The chief interest in the above example, aside from its illustrating what is meant by q, is that it shows how slight is the departure from random mating, even in a simple one-factor case where there is no dominance to confuse and where ideals are such as to lead to a rather strong effort toward mating unlikes. Another example of gene frequency may be taken from black breeds of cattle, 13 such as the Holstein-Friesian or Aberdeen-Angus, in which something like one calf in every 100 to 200 purebreds is born red. The difference between the black and red, in most cases at least, is a single.factor one; and dominance is so nearly complete that no one has yet found how to distinguish the homozygous blacks from the heterozy.gotes, (i.e., both BB and Bb individuals are black but the bb individ.uals are red). If we let q represent the frequency of the gene for black, we cannot obtain its value simply by adding the proportion of the homozygotes to half of the proportion of the heterozygotes, as was done in the Shorthorn example, since we cannot identify the heterozy.gotes. By assuming random mating with respect to this gene (which is reasonable, since all parents are BB or Bb, which cannot be distin.guished, and since not much inbreeding is practiced) we can, how.ever, get an estimate of q if we can get a dependable count of the proportion of red calves born. That proportion should be (1 -q) 2 where q is the frequency of the gene for black. If the proportion of red calves born is 1 in 200, then the frequency of the gene for red is . 1 200 or about I in 14 and that of the gene for black is about 13 in 14. Then about I in 7 or 8 among the calves born black is heterozygous and the others are homozygous. 14 The accuracy of this estimate depends upon the accuracy of the observation that 1 calf in 200 born is red; and this, for obvious reasons, is not very dependable. If the proportion of pure¥ bred calves born red is about I in 100, then q is about .9 and about one in five or six of the purebred blacks is heterozygous for red. Also the heterozygotes will not be uniformly distributed all through the breed but will be more abundant in those herds where heterozygous sires have been used recently. "Wisconsin  Agr. Exp. Sta., Bui. 313.  ,. The  ratio  of homozygous  dominants  to  heterozygotes  in  a  random  breeding  population  will  q be --. 2(1-q)  Gene frequency will be low for genes against which selection has already been directed for many generations, as is the case with most lethals. There is no a priori way of estimating whether it will be high or low for genes which have been the object of selection for only a few generations or for genes affecting the magnitude of a characteristic for which the ideal is genetically an intermediate. In populations which have been very small for a long time or are otherwise intensely inbred, more genes will be fixed, or nearly so (i.e., they will have values at or near  zero or  I .0); and fewer genes will have frequencies  near  one-half  than  will be the  case in large random-bred  populations  under  other. wise similar  circumstances.  In the case of multiple alleles, it is usually sufficient to let q repre.sent the frequency of the most desirable gene of the series, grouping all the other alleles together as less desirable and having a total fre.quency of I -q. THE BINOMIAL DISTRIBUTION OF ZYGOTES If mating is random, the proportions in which the zygotes occur will be the square of the gametic ratio, as shown in Table 2. The typical Mendelian F2 or unselected F3 ratio is merely a special case of the binomial distribution where q happens to be exactly .5. Even small variations in q affect rather strongly the proportions of AA and of aa. However, the variations in the proportions of AA and aa cancel each other to some extent so that the percentage of heterozygosis change~ only a little with variations in q, particularly when q is anywhere near one -half. For instance, it may be seen from Table 2 and Figure 3 that the percentage of heterozygosis varies only from .32 to .50 while q ranges between .2 and .8 which includes 60 per cent of the values which q may have. It is only when q is extremely high or extremely low that changes in it produce much change in the percentage of heterozygosis.111 The frequency with which each kind of mating occurs depends much on q. Thus, if there are q1 AA males and q1 AA females and mat."If there are multiple alleles, the percentage of heterozygosis will really he a lit.tle larger than that shown. since some of those designated here as among the (1-q)I aa individuals will really be heterozygous for two of the undesired alleles, i.e., will be A'a, A'A", A"a, etc. Those are homozygous in the sense that neither of the genes is the "desired" one. 67TABLE 2 VAJUATIONS IN GENE fRE1iUENCY AS THEY AFFECT THE PROPORTI ONS OP THE Z YGOTES IN A POPULATI ON MATING AT RANDOM AA  Aa  aa  q  q'  2q(l -q)  (1-q)'  .99 .95 .9 .8  . 9801 .9025 .81 .64  .0198 .0950 .18 .32  . 0001 .0025 .01 .04  .7  .49  .42  .09  .6  .36  .48  . 16  .5  .25  .50  .25  .4  .16  .48  .36  .3  .09  .42  .49  .2  .04  .32  .64  .1  .01  .18  .81  .05 .01  .0025 .0001  .0950 .0198  .9025 .9801  ing is at random, the most probable proportion of matings of the type AA x AA is q2 x q2, or q¥. Extending this to the other five types of mat.ings possible, where there are onl y two alleles, gives the proportions shown in Figure 4. Matings of the kinds AA x AA or aa x aa can con.stitute anything from none to all of the matings in the population /v ~~ V ~ I\. I I \ I \ v \ .1 .2 . .3 .4 .5 .6 .7 .5 .9 1.0 Gene fre9uency (q) FIG. 5. The percentage of heterozygosis as related to gene frequency in a ran.dom breeding population. according to the value of q. Matings of the kinds AA x Aa and AA x aa can constitute from none to 42 per cent of the matings. The maximum figure is reached for the A A x Aa mating when q = .75 and for the g AA>< A.A= cf" z ~ ~ :l ,( t .., 1 ~ kl aa x oo c (1-q) .. ~ .., D. :1 0 .c:. ~ .4 .5 .<o 7 .0 9 10 G.ENE FREQUENCY (9.) Fie. 4. Showing how the abundance or scarcity of each kind of mating changes with gene frequency in a population mating at Tandom. Vertical distances are in proportion to the frequency of each kind of mating. Aa x aa mating when q = .25. Regardless of q, matings of the type Aa x Aa are always just twice as frequent as matings of the type AA x aa under random mating. The maximum proportion of the matings they can constitute is when q = .5, when the Aa x Aa matings make up one-fourth and the AA x aa matings one-eighth of all matings. x The rule that in random breeding populations the zygotic ratio is ,;t the square of the gametic ratio can be extended to include nonallelic genes. That is shown geometrically for two pairs of genes in Figure 5,~~~ where it is assumed for illustration that the frequency of gene A is .4 and that the frequency of gene Bis .7. Hence .16 of the population are AA, .48 are Aa, and .36 are aa; while .49 are BB, .42 are Bb, and .09 are\.t bb. The proportion of individuals which are AABB is .16 of .49 =.0784. 'f..'t The other proportions are obtained similarly. 1V 5JIn the array of ~metes the nonallelic__genes will be combined with IJ\'l.' each other ind~I?.endendy excgit under three circumstances. First, if \' the population is the result of a ~nt cross! the coupling and the repuls10n phases of linked genes m~ not yet ha.ve had time to become equally abundant. Second, if the ~rents were_produced by assortive 2  1A  AA  a  aa  .0784  .2352  .1764  AABB  AaBB  aaB5  ) .0672 .2016 .1512 MBb AaBb aaBb .Ol44-.0432 0324.AAbb Aabb aabb Fie. 5. Showing how the rarity or abundance of the various genotypes in a ran¥ dom breeding population depends on the frequency of the genes in each pair. mating (See Chapter 27), genes which produce similar effects will be ~ther in the same gametes more frequently than otherwise. Third, if the parents are a selectea group (rather than a random sample or a typical sample cirtlieir generation), the gametes they produce will con.tain slightly fewer extreme combinations and more intermediate com.omatTons tnan irthe same genes were combined entirely at random. --rhe -two-factorT 2 ratio, used in genetics . texts to introduce the sub.ject of inheritance where more than one pair of genes is involved, is only the special case in which the frequency of both genes is exactly .5. The zygotic ratio when n genes combine at random can be had by mul.tiplying all the zygotic ratios for each pair of genes together thus: [qAA + (I -qA)a] 2[qaB +(I -q8) b]2[qcC +(I -qc) c] 2 [qNN + (I -qN)n]2. If the frequency of the desired gene is the same in each of the n pairs, the formula can be written in a simpler form: [qA + (I -qA) ]2n. This shows why the search for breeding animals homozygous in all desired genes has no prospect for immediate success unless the number of genes desired is very small and the desired gene in each pair already has a high frequency. Table 3 shows the expectation for various values of q and n, figures being shown only where at least I in 1,000 is expected to exist. TABLE 3 PORTION OF RANDOM BRED POPULATION WHICH WILL BE Hm1ozvoous FOR n DESIRED GENES = q¥ q¥ q2 q2 A B C N Let qA = qB = qc = = qN. Then portion equals q¥¥ n ~~ q .50  5 .001  . ... .  10 r ,, .50  .60 .70  .006 .028  ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ' ¥ ¥ .001  I  ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥  ¥ ¥'  ¥ ¥ ¥  .80  .107  .012  .90 .95 .98 .99  .349 .599 .817 .904  .122 .358 . 668 .818  .015 .128 .446 .669  I  .006 .133 . 366  Animals having at least one desirable gene in each pair but not necessarily homozygous for all those pairs are much more frequent. Thus, if q2 are AA and 2q (I -q) are Aa, those which carry A either in the homozygous or in the heterozygous condition are q2+2q(l -q), which may be written q (2 -q). Extending this ton pairs of genes gives the figures shown in Table 4. Animals possessing at least one desired gene in each pair are more apt to exist in large enough proportions that it will be finitely possible to find them and to breed from them, discard.ing all which do not come up to this standard, than is the case with animals homozygous for the desired genes. In any actual population some of the animals will come nearer than others to having all the desired genes, even though none of them per.haps comes close to that ideal. The practical breeder's simplest reason.able hope is that by selection he can steadily increase the frequency of the desirable genes until sometime -perhaps not until after many gen.TABLE 4 PORTION OP RANDOM BRED POPULATION WHICH WILL P OSSESS AT LEAST ONE DESIRED GENE TNEACH PAIR = qA(2 -qA)qs(2 -qs)qc(2 -qc) . . ¥ . qN(2 -qN).If qA =-qa = qc -. . ¥ . = qN, th en port ion equal s [q(2 -q)] ¥ n q  5  10  ~o  50  á. -- .30  .035  .001  .. . .........  ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 50  .237  .056  003  . . ............  . 70  .624  .389  .152  .009  .80  .815  .665  .442  .130  .90  . 951  .904  .8 18  .605  .95  .988  .975  .951  .882  .99  .999  .999  .998  . 9_95  erations-they may reach such a high frequency that perfect breeding animals may be born in his herd. But whether or not that goal is actual.ly attained in his lifetime, the increasing frequenc y of the desired genes will carry the average merit of the population with it, so that he can reap the reward for his efforts in each generation in which there actual.ly is any increase in the frequency of the desirable genes. In most circumstances the practical breeder is much more interested in average genetic merit than in homozygosit y itself. For exampl e, if 10 pairs of genes affect a trait and a br eeder is choosing between one animal which is homozygous for five of the desired genes but homozy.gous for the undesired gene in the oth er five pairs and another animal which is heterozygous for all IO pairs, there will be little difference in their breeding usefulnes s to him . Each has IO desired genes. On the average each will transmit five desired genes to an offspring, the former to every offspring without exception and the latter sometimes more and sometimes less than five. Probably the wiser choice would be for the more heterozygous animal since the greater variability of its offspring offers more chance for rapid progress by selection among them. DEVIATIONS FROM RANDOM MATING AS THEY AFFECT THE BINOMIAL DISTRIBUTION OF zyGOTF.S Mating is random when mates are no more and no less like each other than if they were paired by drawing numbers out of a hat. Ran.dom mating does not mean promiscuity or carelessness. Deviations from random mating may be of four genetically different kinds: (1) inbreeding, (2) outbreeding, (3) mating like to like on the basis of s~matic resemblance, and (4) Il!_atin_g__im!ividuals which are somatically unlike each other. There can, of course, be breeding systems which involve combinations or alternations of two or more of these. Selec¥ tion, which is deciding that certain individuals shall have many off.spring while others shall have few or none, may be practiced along with random mating among those selected to be parents. An illustration is the breeding practiced on large ranches where sires and dams may be highly selected to conform to the owner's standards, but after the selec.tions are made, several sires and many females are turned loose in the same pasture and the matings within that pasture are random, so far as concerns any human control over them. This is selection plus random mating within the group selected to be parents. If the ideals toward which the selections are made differ on different ranches, mating may be random within the limits of each ranch but will not be random with respect to the whole breed, since animals of like types will tend to be on the same ranch and therefore will mate together more often than would be the case if all the sires and dams on all the ranches were in one pas.ture. Each of these systems of breeding which is not random will be the subject of a later chapter. Inbreeding tends to make the array of zygotes more like that which would exist if the array of gametes were changed into zygotes by doubling all the genes in each gamete. Inbreeding pro.motes the formation of families of all kinds, thus adding to the diversity of the population. Outbreeding, which prevails when mates are less closely related to each other than if they were mating at random, is the reverse of inbreeding and cancels many of its effects. It is especially potent in destroying family differences which have been produced hy inbreeding, and at producing hybrid vigor or "heterosis." Unless dis.tinct families already exist, outbreed~ng cannot be carried far. The general effect of mating like to like, within the whole group of parents selected to produce the next generation of the breed, is to make the population more variable by providing more than a random chance for gametes from an extreme individual to meet with gametes from an indi.vidual which is extreme in the same direction. The mating of unlikes together makes the population more uniform by making it more likely that gametes from an extreme individual will unite with gametes from an individual extreme in the opposite direction than would be the case under strictly random mating. It is the most potent breeding sys.tem for producing immediate uniformity in a population but produces nearly all its effects in the first generation practiced. It is practiced much where the ideal is intermediate and the breeder seeks to mate them so that each will compensate for the defects of its mate. REFERENCES Belling, John. 19~1. Chromomeres of liliaceous plants. Univ. Calif. Pub. Bot., 16: 153-70. Cole, L. J., and Jones, Sarah V. H. 1920. The occurrence of red calves in black breeds of cattle. Wisconsin Agr. Exp. Sta., Bui. 313. Fisher, R. A. 1930. The genetical theory of natural selection. (See especially pp. 17-18 and 38--41.) Gowen, John W., and Gay , E. H. 1933. Gene number, kind, and size in Drosophila.Genetics, 18:1-31. Ibsen, H. L. 1933. Cattle inheritance. I. Color. Genetics, 18:441-80. Juli, M.A. 1934. The inheritance of sexual maturity, rate, and pcrsistency of laying in the domestic fowl. Foullry Science, 13:286-89. King, H. D. 1932. l\lutations in a strain of captive gray Norway rats. Proc. Sixth Internat. Cong. of Genetics , 2:108-10. Muller, H.J., and Prokofycva, A. A. 1935. The individual gene in relation to the chromomere and the chromosome. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., 21: 16--26. Rhoades, M. M., and McClinLock, Barbara. 1935. The cytogenetics of maize. Botani.cal Review, I :292-325. Skovsted, A. 1932. Nordisk Jordbrugsforskning, 5:201-5. Stadler, L. J. 1932. On the genetic nature of induced mutations in plants. Proc. Sixth Internat. Cong. of Genetics, I :274-94 . "Student." 1934. A calculation of the minimum number of genes in Winter's selection experiment. Annals of Eugenics, 6(Part 1):77-82. Sumner, F. B. 1932. Genetic distributional and evolutionary studies of the sub.species of deer -mice (Peromyscus). Bibliographia Genetica, 9: 1-106. Wriedt, Chr. 1929. Den mendclske spaltning av fettprosenten ved kryssning av rjjklt dansk og jerseyfe. Nordisk Jordbrugsforskning , 103-21. CHAPTER 7 The Genetic Basis of Variation Variation-differences between individuals-is the raw material on which the breeder works. It is not necessary that the animals vary wide.ly enough that the breeder can at the very start find some perfect ones to select, but merely that some of them will be closer to his ideal than others are. The causes of variation are differences in the heredity with which individuals started life, and differences in the environments, internal and external, known and unknown, to which they were exposed during their development . Except in the case of identical twins, two individu.als rarely if ever start with all their genes identical. 1 No two individuals ever develop under absolutely identical environments. Hence in prac.tice an observed difference between two individuals must always be considered as the net result of some differences in their heredity and some differences in their environment. Hereditary and environmental differences may have been far from equal in the size of the effects they produced, but almost always both will have been present. They may have opposed each other or both may have worked in the same direc.tion. Besides these two main divisions of variation into hereditary and environmental portions, a third portion (necessary for logical com.pleteness) comes from joint effects of heredity and environment which cannot fairly be ascribed to either one alone. Such joint effects may occur either if heredity and environment are correlated or if they inter.act in some nonadditive way so that the effect of a particular variation in heredity may be larger in one environment than in another or, con.1 In organisms which can reproduce asexually, (as many plants can by cuttings , budding , etc.,) large groups of individuals with identical heredity can occur. These are called "clones." A highly inbred line either of plants or animals, also approaches the condition in which all individuals in it have the same heredity, but this approach is asymptotic and it is rarely if ever/ossible to be sure that complete identity of heredity has been reached . The broa term, "isogenic line," which includes identi.cal twins , clones, and completely inbred lines, is convenient where it is desired only to mean that all members of the group have identical heredity, regardless of how that group was produced. [ 74] 